Artifact 1: Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) Exhibit
This exhibit provides the vision to understand the dangers of managing nuclear waste, and how we have devised new, safer technologies to contain and effectively dispose of nuclear waste. As you can see, the experiment contains a cylindrical structure, and the associated radioactive material containment units (drums). We also show the salt beds which are used to manage the radioactivity of the waste, which is expected to remain radioactive for thousands of years. A fun fact is that this plant is America’s only officially licensed repository for disposing radioactive waste (of higher radioactivity than uranium).

Artifact 2: The Dark Cube
What you can see in this exhibit is a dense composition of cubes. They are made of pure uranium, which were collected by Nazi scientists during World War II. In that time period, Germany was making robust developments in nuclear technology, especially with regards to splitting atoms and understanding the energy released, and how it could be weaponized. This exhibit shows us some of Heisenberg’s work on atomic weapons, which did not succeed. The idea was to achieve a chain reaction. There were approximately 664 of these cubes - strangely, 650 of these cubes are still not accounted for, making this exhibit extremely rare.

Artifact 3: Pioneers of the Atom
This exhibit shows a vast timeline, fixated on the individuals who worked on developments surrounding the atom. It includes various names, such as Albert Einstein, Madame Marie Curie, Enrico Fermi, Ernest Rutherford, Niels Bohr, and many more. 

Artifact 4: Hiroshima and Nagasaki
This exhibit is a photographic collection of the after-effects of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, capturing the plight of the suffering people of Japan. It includes rare motion picture images too, to highlight just how devastating nuclear weapons are, and how the war was eventually ended.

Conclusion:
As we conclude our tour, I hope you have enjoyed this exploration of the National Museum of Nuclear Science and History. These artifacts have contributed wonderfully to the understanding of the past, and each carries a unique story.